Title: RHoK Melbourne
Link text: Home

# Welcome to RHoK Melbourne

Random Hacks of Kindness Melbourne (RHoK) is a not for profit local group that is part of a global movement of hackers who are hacking for good around the world.  We invite participants to work together to produce practical open source solutions to development problems related to disaster risk, major crisis (like bushfires, floods and earthquakes), and the challenges of climate change.

# What is RHoK?

RHoK is a global hackathon that takes part twice a year.  It was started in 2009 by Google, NASA, Yahoo!, Microsoft and the World Bank, and since then RHoK has been bringing together thousands of people around the world to create open source solutions that can save lives and alleviate suffering.
RHoK Melbourne events encourage participants to develop solutions that can be used, in particular, to help people prepare for and respond to natural disasters.
Melbourne is again taking part in the next global RHoK event in June this year.

# RHoK Global Hackathons

The next global hack weekend will be on May 31 and June 1, 2014. We are currently recruiting new problem owners and hackers. Sign up to our <a href="http://www.meetup.com/Random-Hacks-of-Kindness-Melbourne">Meetup group</a> to keep up to date with the latest news and events.


RHoK Melbourne was located at Swinburne University Hawthorn, in the AMDC building.
<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m18!1m12!1m3!1d1575.7998188316087!2d145.03820679999995!3d-37.822845699999995!2m3!1f0!2f0!3f0!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!3m3!1m2!1s0x6ad64232763f1f4d%3A0x5fece3184d5ad0c8!2s427%2F401-451+Burwood+Rd%2C+Hawthorn+VIC+3122!5e0!3m2!1sen!2sau!4v1416451818705" width="600" height="450" frameborder="0" style="border:0"></iframe><br/><small><i>Around here somewhere . . .</i></small><br/><br/>

Here's an outline of how the RHoK Melbourne hackathon will run in June. We'll keep most of the time for actual development, and the speechifying and admin to a bare minimum.  The challenges and problems people will be pitching to be worked will be updated on "Current projects" page.

## Saturday 6 December

* 9.00 – 9.30 Get set up, and ready for 2 great days
* 9.30 – 9.45 Welcome and administrivia
* 9.45 - 10.30 Choosing problem areas to work on, and teams to work with
* 11.00 - 19.00 start your hacking
* 19.00 – 20.00 Dinner (on us)
* 20.00 – 23.00 more time to design and develop

We'll have light snacks, fruit, drinks and the like on hand to keep your blood sugar levels up. There are many great local cafes, restaurants and stores around to grab a more substantial lunch.

You can work as late as 11.00pm, or head home a little earlier to catch up on some sleep

## Sunday 7 December

* 8.00 – 13.00 Coding continues
* 14.00 Time to down tools
* 14.30 – 15.30 All projects get 10 minutes to present their work to all (and the judges)
* 15.30 – 16.00 Judges deliberate
* 16.00 – 16.30 Awards and prizes
* 16.30 onwards - come share a drink nearby at the Hawthorn Hotel to unwind
