Categories: problems
Summary: Problems that are currently being worked on from past RHoK events
Read more: Show me more

# Current projects

## New and Current Problems

### StartOut

**DSG means Diverse Sexuality and Gender – it's still an acronym but we think it's way more inclusive than LGBTIQQabcde...**

There is a problem in Australia right now that DSG people are over represented when it comes to mental health issues like depression, anxiety and suicidal ideation –  we want to change this. While there is a lot of support around depression and anxiety in our  community, much of it comes too late.  

**StartOut Australia is a new organisation that is focusing on early interventions** that build the confidence and resilience of DSG people with the aim of reducing the entirely preventable burden of poor mental health. 

* Our pitch to RHoK is going to be about helping us **create something awesome that will put a mentor or a positive role model in the hand of every young DSG person in Australia**, and allow them to interact and communicate with people about issues they might not be able to talk to anyone else in the world about. 
* We know that 95% of DSG people use the internet as the first place to find answers to their questions so **we want to get clever with synchronous and asynchronous communication via a web/mobile application, develop new matching algorithms based on an ideal mentoring relationship and find new ways to communicate moods and feelings via digital means.**
* If you are a tech savvy person who thinks that people should just be comfortable to be themselves, we want your help! *Tech platform and language to be decided*

### Ethical Switch (ESwitch)

ESwitch is an initiative which aims to raise money for charity while helping consumers switch to a values centred lifestyle.

Charities are heavily reliant on the generosity of donors and as such, when Aussies are doing it tough, the charities’ most vulnerable beneficiaries are often terribly affected.  ESwitch will enable Aussies donate to the charity of their choice without having extra out of pocket expenses. We achieve this by harnessing people power to pressure companies to provide quality affordable products with a simultaneous donation to a customer’s charity.

The heart of ESwitch is an online campaign website to attract people to sign up for a particular deal around a daily expense (eg. electricity, mobile etc).  When a sufficient threshold of people join the campaign, the charity deal can “go live” and the donations to charities increase as more people that switch to the deal.
As such, the design of the campaign website will aim to be intuitive and magnetic to attract people drawn by the values, philanthropy or the simplicity to switch.
It will need to be navigated across device platforms and have a sense of being a “live interactive community”, building towards a goal of unlocking the charity deal.

###### Explain like I'm under 5: Live solar generation displays for early-education

Brunswick Space Administration (David Perry) and Energy for the People (Alex Houlston and Tosh Szatow) are working together to make energy self-sufficiency more accessible to consumers, community groups and small businesses by providing compelling data, visualization and analysis. We are currently looking to induct a number of pilot sites with rooftop PV, and a common theme is early-educational environments. An important value proposition for these sites is to not just install and monitor PV, but explain it for children and parents alike. Why is it there and how does it work? While we love a good graph, visualizing data for under fives will require a new and wildly imaginative approach. We'd like your help!

###### Liminal Apparel

Liminal Apparel was set up 4 years ago after beginning the journey with Freeset to start producing t-shirts. We spent a few months working over at Freeset and had our hearts broken for the Women and seeing the very tangible difference us choosing to buy fair trade and organic makes. Our business model is quite different as well, we are set up to be sustainable and profitable and all profit goes directly back into Freeset.

One of the reasons we started up is because we want to offer something which is more than just a 'charity style' product, we believe donations and offerings are extremley important, but nothing beats work. We love knowing that every t-shirt and bag sold here is the start of a new life of dignity for the women and their familes of Freeset.

More info soon about the aspects of the Liminal Apparel website that need some help.

### Apidae

[Apidae](http://www.apidae.com.au/) tells the stories of sustainability. We share stories about what is happening at the community level, so organisations like the UN understand and can improve their community projects.
 
We want to create an easy way for people to participate in their own development, and help those funding it understand what the community wants. So, at the RHoK June Hackathon we are looking to build a simple mobile app that allows people in the community to record and share their stories. This might include recording some photos, voiceover, a bit of video or even tagging some issues they think are important. We want these stories to be shared on a platform that people can interact with (e.g. maybe a Facebook platform). We think this app could be the future of community-centred sustainability!

## Ongoing Problems (have been worked on before at a RHoK event)

### Universal Emergency Response Management

In any emergency response, such as firefighting, there is a need to manage resources and optimise their utilisation. Responders, vehicles, aircraft all play a part, and it is important for team leaders and managers to know where everything is located and the task it is currently assigned to do. Often, in a fire fighting scenario, teams are spread out over many kilometres, and also be obscured by smoke. Operational managers in the response management headquarters also require a "big picture" view to properly use the resources at their disposal.

[Find out more](http://www.rhok.org/node/95421)  

### Witness King Tides (Green Cross Australia)

[Witness King Tides](http://www.witnesskingtides.org) is an existing website asks communities around Australia to take photos of the coastline when king tides hit. These photos capture what our coastal communities may look like in the future, as global sea levels rise. Together, the images build a picture of the threat posed by sea level rise across Australia and help track the future impact of climate change.

Our aim is to develop an app which allows users to photograph the coast using their smart phone. This will engage Australians around the issue of sea level rise and drive them to make sustainable actions for a positive future.

[Find out more](https://docs.google.com/document/d/13oJFYg8JN05k6QvChiACS6b6blTLWbntpP85FfGGOW8/edit?usp=sharing)
